Product Teardown   
Analysing Truecaller Notifications

Mission
“We are on a mission to build trust in communication”
Business modelsWhat’s Truecaller? 
Truecaller is a leading global platform for verifying
contacts and blocking unwanted communication
founded by Nami Zaringhalam & Alan Mamedi in 2009.
Truecaller in numbers 
374 M
Avg active users1 B+
Downloads1100 B+
 Unknown calls & SMS Identified50 B 
Blocked spam calls  1. Free subscription with ad revenue
2. Paying premium subscribers
3. Truecaller BusinessCompetitors
Hiya mr number Showcaller Product Overview

Truecaller’s target audience consists of working professionals who highly rely on
phone communication such as sales people, business owners and real-estate
agents. They belong to the 25 - 40 year old age group, and have different needs. 
Here, we are considering two such personas:
User Persona 1: Rahul CEO
User Persona 2: Mayuri Sales ExecutiveWho are the target users?
User Segmentation

Behaviours :
1.Frequently updates his contacts with important
connections and categorises for easy recognition
2.Activates ‘Do not Disturb’ mode during focus
hours.
Needs : 
1.A smart call filtering system to prioritize calls
from Investors and clients & to block unwanted
sales and spam calls.
2.A real time caller id to assess relevance of calls.
Pain Points :
Name : Raj 
Age : 37
Location : Hyderabad
Occupation : CEO & CO-founder of a tech startup1.Excessive interruption from unknown and low
priority calls
2.The risk of missing important calls by ignoring all
unknown numbersPersona 1

Name: Niharika Jain 
Age : 25 
Location : Bangalore
Occupation : Senior Sales Executive at an Ed-
tech company       Behaviours :
1. Set reminder for follow up calls and uses call notes
to keep track of client discussions.
2. Doesn't save numbers of prospects after calling
them.
Pain Points:
1. High stress from juggling numerous leads and calls,
making it easy to miss follow ups or incoming calls
from prospects
2. Frustration when missing a callback from lead
initially reached out to, leading to prospect losing
interest
Needs : Instant caller identification and history to
recognise potential prospects Persona 2

Annoyance Curiosity CautionUser emotions throughout the above journey
➡ ➡
Empowered and secureSatisfactionHow does the journey of a user look like after
receiving a notification?
😠 🤔 😬 🫡 😌 ➡ ➡

Types of notifications in Truecaller
1. Caller identification notification : Real time
identification of unknown numbers before
answering
2.Spam alert notification (In-app) : Warns users
about high risk or reported spam numbers
3.Missed call notification
4. Call report notification: Allows users to quickly
report a call as spam.Key Insights

Spam alert background colour Missed call notification icon Dark mode compatibility
Red background for spam
calls visually differentiates
spam calls and regular callsThe distinct missed call icon
offers a quick action for user to
redial or ignore.Notifications adapting to dark
mode maintain readability and
aesthetic appeal in low light
environmentsWhat is special about the UI & UX?

Key metrics to focus on

Implementing more personalised notifications based on user
behaviour could really help Truecaller improve the user
engagement
 Truecaller could add a smart option for its users to customise
notification preferences to give them more control, rather than
seeing every single notification .
 By adding context to the upcoming notifications- Like why a call
was flagged or who is calling could improve the user
understanding towards the application.Scope for improvement

Thank You!
B y PRABHPREET SINGH
 AJMANI

